I. Introduction:
=================
0. Introduce yourself.
1. Tell me about Python?
2. Why Python is so popular now a days?
3. Features of Python
4. Advantages and Disadvantages of Python
5. Interpreted vs Compiled time programming languages. Explain in detail
6. .py vs .pyc files
7. How compilation will happen internally. Explain in detail
8. Why Python is Dynamically typed programming Language. Explain
9. Python is Platform independent.Explain
10.Different ways to write python program.
   Interactive, IDLE, CommandPrompt, IDE
   Advantages, Disadvantages
11.sourcecode vs bytecode
12.Register instruction set
13.High Level vs Low level programming Language
14.Python architecture
15.Explain Garbage Collection mechanism in detail.
'''

Answer 1. Introduce Yourself. -
Myself Akankhsa. I have completed my B.TECH from Integral University, Lucknow, UP. After completing my graduation I joined ICICI Bank Ltd as Deputy Manager at Delhi
branch. There I worked for almost 2 years and gained corporate experience. There I got to learn many things wile solving customer queries, I assisted my suboordinates, 
provided validation for cheques, and completed various tasks that were given to me. I was preparing for govt exams like UPSC during those days. However, I couldn't 
clear the prelims. I have also worked as teacher in Royal Academy where I use to guide students and teach them maths upto class 10th level. I completed my post 
graduation in 2021 that is MBA in HR. Meanwhile, I got inclined towards IT sector and learnt about wide range of opportunities provided in IT sector. So, I joined Itvedant
 Pvt Ltd and completed an year Internship. There I did many projects and gained various insights regarding web technologies like -HTML5,CSS3, Javascript. Created 
projects in Python using Web frameworks like Django, Flask, got understanding of ORM libraries and performing CRUD operations when connecting databases like MYSQL,SQL.
 I have created a web app in Angular using its components and built a website that was an Online School Management Site that can be used to manage school, classes, 
students, fees teachers and administration, had Login and register panel. That was built using PHP, MySQL, HTML,CSS, BOotstrap.

I am optimistic, confident, punctual. I am dedicated towards my work and put my 100 % effort into my work. I am cheerful and can work well in a team as well as a 
good solo contributor too.

Answer 2. Tell me about Python?   
Python is high level programming language which is easy to understand, use and learn.It is dynamically typed, interpreted and popular programming language as 
very few lines of code is there in Python as it uses words like simple English words. It is used by all tech giants like Amazon, Google, Facebook, Instagram, DropBox,
 Uber etc. Because of large number of standard libraries available, it can be used for web applications like 
	   
	   - ML
	   - data science
	   - GuI applications like (Tkinter,Kivy, PyQt)
	   - Image processing (like OpenCV, Pillow)
	   -Web scraping (like Scrapy, BeautifulSoup, Selenium)
	   -Test framworks
	   -multimedia
	   -Scientific Computing
	   -Text Processing

        Error identification is soon and results are obtained faster. It is flexible and can be used in any OS platform that is platform independent.    
   
Answer 3. Why Python is so popular now a days?  
          Beacuse of following reasons -
        
         a)Very few lines of code in comparison to other programming languages
         b)Uses simple enlish words that makes it easy to learn, undersatnd and use.
         c)Large number of libraries available in Python that makes it suitable for creating web applications and web development
 		 d)It is used by well renowned companies like Amazon, Facebook, Google.
		 e)It is flexible as it is platform independent as it can run on any OS
		 f)It is dynamically typed language so a programmer don't need to input data types while defining variable.
		 g)It has various web frameworks available like Django and Flask which helps a programmer focus on logic instead of security logic and other issues.
		 h)It used in Data science, machine learning, big data, data processing
		 
Answer 4.Features of Python
         Python is a dynamic, high-level, free open source, and interpreted programming language. It supports object-oriented programming as well as procedural-oriented programming. In Python, we don’t need to declare the type of variable because it is a dynamically typed language. For example, x = 10 Here, x can be anything such as String, int, etc.
		 
        a)Free and open source- esily available (from its official website )
        b)Easy to code- simple English words, so easy to learn and understand
        c)Easy to read - As you will see, learning Python is quite simple. As was already established, Python’s syntax is really straightforward. The code block is
          defined by the indentations rather than by semicolons or brackets.	
        d)Object-Oriented Language- supports object oriented concepts like encapsulation, Inheritance
        e)GUI programming - Graphical User interfaces can be made using a module such as PyQt5,Tkinter in Python. PyQt5 is the most popular option for creating 
          graphical apps with Python.	
        f)High level Language - We do not need to manage memory and no need to remember system architecture.
	g)Large Community Support- Python has gained popularity over the years. Our questions are constantly answered by the enormous StackOverflow community. 
          These websites have already provided answers to many questions about Python, so Python users can consult them as needed.
	h)Easy to debug- error ientification is soon. It provides excellent information for mistake tracing
	i)Portable - If we have a Python code for windows, we can run the same in Linux or Mac too without changing the code
	j)Integrated language - It can easily integrate with languages like C,C++
	k)Interpreted language - In python we need an interpreter. Python code is executed line by line at a time. There is no need to compile the code as is required in other languages like c,c++, java that makes it easier to code. The source code is converted into immediate byte code.
        l)Large Standard Library - Python has a large standard library that provides a rich set of modules and functions. Thus, we need not build eveerything from scaratch.There are many libraries present in Python such as regular expressions, unit-testing, web browsers.
	m)Dynamically typed language - we need not mention data type for variables in advance, it is needed at run time only.
	n)Front and backend - With py script , we can write python codes in HTML using <py-script> and <py-env>. For backend we can use frameworks like Django and Flask.
        o)Allocating memory dynamically - Variable data type need not to be provided. The memory is automatically allocated to a variable at run time when it is given a value.Developers do not need to write int y = 18 if the integer value 15 is set to y. You may just type y=18.
	
Answer 5.Advantages and Disadvantages of Python	
         Advantages - 
		 
		 a)Open source - easily available 
         b)Easy to learn, use and understand
         c)Improved Productivity - because of its simplicity, Python programmers can easily focus on solving issues.
		 d)Interpreted language - It executes codes directly line by line, and if there is any error, than rather than contiuing execution it reports back the error that occurred.
		 e)Easily portable- 
		 f)Massive Libraries - Python standard library is vast and has various in-built functions that makes it independent of external libraries. For external libraries, we can use Python Package Manage(pip)you can easily import several packages from the massive Python Package Index (PyPi), containing more than 200,000 packages. 
         g)Easy-to-integrate with Other Programming Languages  
		 
		 Disadvantages - 
		 1)Low speed - Interpreted lang, executed line by line, so leads to slow execution. Python’s dynamic nature is mainly the reason for its low speed since there is a requirement for some extra work during the execution process. This is one of the reasons why Python is not used when speed is a significant aspect of a given program.
		 2)Inefficient Memory Consumption - To offer some simplicity to programmers and developers, Python needs to make some tradeoffs. This language uses a huge amount of memory, which acts as a disadvantage, especially when you are developing an app with a preference for memory optimization.
		 3)Weak in Programming for Mobile Devices- slow processing power and less memory efficient so not used
		 4)Difficult-to-interact Database Layer - It has an underdeveloped and primitive database layer in contrast to other more popular technologies such as ODBC and JDBC. Mostly, companies aim to have smooth interaction with complex data, which makes it difficult for them to use Python.
		 5)Prone to Cause Runtime Errors- python dynamic feature, the value held by a variable can change,A Python variable that once held an integer value, may hold a string value in the future. This may lead to runtime errors. Hence, developers must perform several rounds of testing for any application developed.
		 
Answer 6.Interpreted vs Compiled time programming languages. Explain in detail	
	     Compiled Language - 
         a)A compiled language is a programming language whose implementations are typically compilers and not interpreters
           An interpreted language is a programming language whose implementations execute instructions directly and freely, without previously compiling a program into machine-language instructions.
		   
		 b)In this language, once the program is compiled it is expressed in the instructions of the target machine.
		 While in interpreted language, the instructions are not directly executed by the target machine.
		 
		 c)There are at least two steps to get from source code to execution.
		   interpreted lang -There is only one step to get from source code to execution.

         d)In this language, compiled programs run faster than interpreted programs.	
		 While in interpreted language, interpreted programs can be modified while the program is running.
		 
		 e)In this language, compilation errors prevent the code from compiling.
		  In interpreted lang, all the debugging occurs at run-time.
		  
		 f)The code of compiled language can be executed directly by the computer’s CPU.
		    In interpreted lang, A program written in an interpreted language is not compiled, it is interpreted.
			
		 g)This language delivers better performance.
           	 In interpreted lang, This language example delivers relatively slower performance.

         h)	Example of compiled language – C, C++, C#, CLEO, COBOL, etc.
            Example of Interpreted language – JavaScript, Perl, Python, BASIC, etc.
			
		
Answer 7. .py vs .pyc files - 
         a).py files contain the source code of a program. Whereas, .pyc file contains the bytecode of your program. We get bytecode after compilation of .py file (source code). .pyc files are not created for all the files that you run. It is only created for the files that you import.
		 
         b)Before executing a python program python interpreter checks for the compiled files. If the file is present, the virtual machine executes it. If not found, it checks for .py file. If found, compiles it to .pyc file and then python virtual machine executes it.
         
		 c)Having .pyc file saves you the compilation time.
		 
Answer 8.How compilation will happen internally. Explain in detail
         Python converts the source code into a series of byte codes. So within python, compilation stage happens, but directly into byte code and this byte 
code can’t be identified by CPU. So there is a need for a mediator to do this task. Here an interpreter comes into existence called the python virtual machine.
 The python virtual machine takes care of the execution of byte codes.		 
		 
		 
Answer 9.Why Python is Dynamically typed programming Language. Explain
         Because we do not need to mention variable datatype. It is needed at run time only.	
         In any programming languages, we need to mention its data types before assigning values the the. But in Python we can assign values to a variable without declaraing its datatype. It states the kind of variable at run time only
          
        a=10
        print(typeof(a))		 -  <class 'int'>
		
Answer 10.Python is Platform independent.Explain
          Because its code can run on any OS. If we have python program code for windows, we can run it on Linux or Max without having us to change the code for differenet os .

Answer 11.Different ways to write python program.
          Interactive, IDLE(scripting way ), CommandPrompt, IDE	
		  
		   Interactive Way -In same file, in one line we write the code  and in next line we get the output.
           IDLE - (Python integrated development and learning environment). It allows programmers to easily write python code just like shell scripts.IDLE can be lused to execute a single statement and create, modify, and execute Python scripts.
		   
		   An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that helps programmers develop software code efficiently. It increases developer productivity by combining capabilities such as software editing, building, testing, and packaging in an easy-to-use application.
		   
		   An IDE (or Integrated Development Environment) is a program dedicated to software development. As the name implies, IDEs integrate several tools specifically designed for software development. These tools usually include: An editor designed to handle code (with, for example, syntax highlighting and auto-completion) 
		   Top 10 Python IDE are - Pycharm, spyder, PyDev, Atom, Microsoft Visual Studio, Jupyter NoteBook.

Answer 12.sourcecode vs bytecode
          sourcecode has .py extension whereas bytecode is the compiled file and has .pyc extension.
		  sourcecode is a set instructions given in human readable form whereas bytecode has an intermediate code between source code and machine code.
		  
Answer 13.	Register instruction set
            These commands are written to seting a register to a specific value, copying data from memory to register and vice - versa., and reading/writing data, performing arithmetic and logic operations.  
			
Answer 14.	High Level vs Low level programming Language	
            High Level lang - 
			
			a)easy to understand, maintain, learn and debug
            b)Less memory efficient
            c)it is portable
            d)It can run on any platform	
            e)It needs compiler or interpreter for translation.		
            f)It is widely used for programming
			g)It is programmar friendly 
			
			Low level lang - 
			a)not easy to understand, maintain debug
			b)More memory efficient
			c)debugging is complex
			d)not portable
			e)machine dependent
			f)not used for programming these days.
			g)It is machine friendly
			h)Needs assembler for translation.
			
Answer 15.	Python architecture

            Python doesn’t convert its code into machine code, something that hardware can understand. It actually converts it into something called byte code. So within python, compilation happens, but it’s just not into a machine language. It is into byte code (.pyc or .pyo) and this byte code can’t be understood by the CPU. So we need an interpreter called the python virtual machine to execute the byte codes. 
 
            The Python source code goes through the following to generate an executable code : 
 

            Step 1: The python compiler reads a python source code or instruction. Then it verifies that the instruction is well-formatted, i.e. it checks the syntax of each line. If it encounters an error, it immediately halts the translation and shows an error message.
            
			Step 2: If there is no error, i.e. if the python instruction or source code is well-formatted then the compiler translates it into its equivalent form in an intermediate language called “Byte code”.
            
			Step 3: Byte code is then sent to the Python Virtual Machine(PVM) which is the python interpreter. PVM converts the python byte code into machine-executable code. If an error occurs during this interpretation then the conversion is halted with an error message.		
			
Answer 16.	Explain Garbage Collection mechanism in detail.
           
            Garbage Collection in Python manages memory allocation automatically. The process of automatically deleting unused or unwanted objects to free the memory is called garbage collection.  A garbage collector can be considered similar to a memory manager of an operating system. It keeps track of allocated, de-allocated, and unused memory.
			In pyhon, c, c++, there is automatic garbage collection whereas in other languages garbage collection is done manually.
			
			garbage collection starts on execution of program. When referenced counter to an object becomes zero, garbage collection is trigerred.
			An objects reference counter increases when assigned with a new name/ alias.
			It decreases when object is deleted when del().Before deleting any object, the Python interpreter invokes the destructor of a class called __del__(). The destructor is invoked when the instance of the class (object) is about to be destroyed. The destructor may be used to clean any other non-memory resources used by the objects. when it reaches zero, garbage collects it automatically. 
			This happens in 2 ways:
			
			a)reference counting
			b)generational grabage collection
			
			first one is used when reference to object becomes 0 and garbage collector comes into picture.
			second one is used when In the case of a reference counter, when we try to add an object to itself, it leads to a cyclical reference or reference cycle (an object referring to itself). So a reference counter cannot destroy the object as the object's reference counter could never reach 0 (due to cycle). So, Generational Garbage Collector came into the picture.

			